[Music]
[Applause]
that's a wonderful sound Ernie yeah
laughter from children children of all
ages
everything forgotten except the magic
world they're in the circus world tinsel
and spun candy and thrill you know one
of the reasons we made the greatest show
on earth is because the world needs
laughter today that kind of level but
the real circus story is more than
laughter it's an exciting story a human
story a story that was a tremendous
problem to film because the circus never
stands still the circuses wheels rolling
wheel wagon wheels truck wheels train
wheels a world on wheels fighting wind
and rain and mud and mud and above all
fighting time to keep moving
we from Hollywood had to travel over
60,000 miles to film our story of this
fascinating world we actually became
part of the show itself ah Hollywood
stars had to learn to be real circus
performers to do actual circus acts in
front of real audiences as an example
look at that blonde ball of condensed
energy betty hutton what a workman she
is to play Holly the trapeze artist she
trained for months with Antoinette
Kinsella one of the world's great
aerialists audiences couldn't believe
that they actually saw what they
actually saw betty hutton flying through
the air with the greatest of ease and as
an emotional actress she well commands
the air you've never seen this betty
hutton until you see the greatest show
on earth Cornel Wilde is the great
Sebastian in love with Betty on the
ground but her daredevil rival for the
star spot on the trapeze high above the
center ring between these two
Stan's the second boss rugged Charlton
Heston Chuck Heston we call him his job
is to keep the circus rolling the two
women who love him think he has only
sawdust in his veins Dorothy Lamour gets
a lot of laughs at Phillips the
curvaceous wisecracking hula girl she
has a big heart but never tell her a
secret this is Gloria Grahame she gives
a fine performance as angel the elephant
girl and she shows nerves of steel when
she lies down in the center ring and
lets a five-ton elephant put its foot
right on her pretty face her life
depends on the man who loves and hates
her Klaus the sinister elephant trainer
Rio Becca one quietly spoken word and
she would be crushed to death then of
course there are the clowns some of the
most famous clowns in the world we have
Otto Greenlee Lou Jacobs Ernie butch
Felix Adler fuzzy pants with my little
sweetheart Daisy poor Jerome Prince Paul
Paul Young Paul Marty a
that's quite a pack of Paul Jimmy
Armstrong
Albert white Irving rumack our Bruce
Charlie Baron with peanuts and popcorn
Frankie saluto and his long he had
friend and of course the one and only
Emmett Kelly as weary Willie there are
fifty clowns with the show but I wonder
if you recognize this one yes
no well underneath that putty nose and
painted smile is one of Hollywood's top
stars James Stewart we call him Jimmy
and we love him as you will Jimmy
Stewart realized his lifelong ambition
in the greatest show on earth playing
buttons a clown for some mysterious
reason buttons never removes his makeup
you see all these glamorous stars and
hundreds of other circus acts
the trained animals such as the famous
Liberty hustlers and the jungle animals
that can be trained but never tame only
the Tigers and the Jaguars and the
daredevil performers who slapped death
in the face twice a day when the circus
is not a make-believe
every move is a calculated risk one
carelessly tied knot a split second off
timing and no it's not make-believe
sawdust is hard when a flier falls from
60 feet in the air but the show rolls
just the same I know because I lived
with these circus people and learned to
respect them and love them the drama of
their lives is our motion picture their
loves and hates their failures and
follies their bitter tragedies and their
glittering triumph these are the people
who bring you the greatest show on earth
the story for all ages from grandmother
to grandchild it's a motion picture for
everyone and a sense of humor
[Music]